# AlgorithmVisualizer

A graphically menu driven application that currently dose only 1 thing and that is to generate a complete maze.
The maze is generated by applying DEPTH FIRST SEARCH algorithm in a modified manner suitable for this use.
The application window opens with 3 options, VISUALIZE, SETTINGS, CREDITS. At the moment all the options are unpopulated except VISUALIZE.
Once we go into visualize, a maze is built that tries to cover all the cells in the map, as the maze is built, we are also alloted a start point and an end point shown in green and blue respectively.
There are once again 3 buttons on the page. In the top left corner is the ESC that will take you back to the mainmenu. The BuidMaze button will try to regenerate a new maze. The New start/goal button will try to re-allot a new start and goal location.

The Maze building aspect works on the simple depthe first search algorithm. The map starts will an empty 2D arrray of unvisited nodes. As the search begins it marks the visited nodes as paths and adds walls around them. This continues until it hits a dead end and has no further nodes to explore, then it back tracks to the last unexplored node and continues the process. If we go by logic, wehn all the nodes have been explored it should backtrack to the starting node here again it chech for empty nodes, and if it does not find any empty node to explore it ends the maze building part and enters into the adding of start and goal.

To add a start and goal, we simply check all valid path nodes which have 3 neighbours as walls. This ensures that both will be at the end of a segment.

To change the speed of maze building change the steps variable in class b3Board's render function.
